Chinese Characters and Genesis | Answers in Genesis --> --> Cart Account United States / English If you already have an account, Sign in. View Cart United States / English Answers Store Events Videos Kids Education Donate Answers in Genesis Answers Bible Genesis Chinese Characters and Genesis Chinese Characters and Genesis on March 6, 1998 Share Copied ');setTimeout(() => { document.querySelectorAll('.linktooltips-container').forEach(el => el.remove()); }, 3000);" type="button" > Link copied ');setTimeout(() => { document.querySelectorAll('.linktooltips-container').forEach(el => el.remove()); }, 3000);--> Here are seven Chinese Characters that show that the ancient Chinese knew the Gospel message found in the book of Genesis. In the book God’s Promise to the Chinese by Ethel R. Nelson and Richard E. Broadberry, hundreds more are revealed. Find out: Do the mysterious, ancient Chinese characters have a biblical meaning little understood before? What was the meaning of the 4,000-year-old Border Sacrifice that the Chinese emperors observed annually? Who was Shang Ti, worshiped in the Border Sacrifice? Painstaking analysis of the most ancient forms of Chinese writing reveals the original thoughts and beliefs of their inventor. Using many examples, the authors show that the inventor of the original Chinese characters knew and believed the account of creation as well as the promise of the Savior to come. Shang Ti, worshiped at the Border Sacrifice, was the Triune God . There are also many more examples found in Genesis and the Mystery Confucius Couldn’t Solve . You May Also Like In-Depth Article Genesis: The Beginning of Messianic Hope In-Depth Article Longevity or Countdown: What Does the 120 Years in Genesis 6:3 Refer To? Magazine Article 3 Reasons Genesis Is as Relevant as Ever Recommended Resources Creation vs. Evolution: Irrefutable Proof 99 ¢ Bible Adam and Eve Archaeology Bible Characters Bible Contradictions Bible History Bible Questions Bible Study Bible Timeline Genesis Gospel Hell Hermeneutics Is the Bible True? Noah’s Ark Noah’s Flood: a Historical, Global Catastrophe The Flood The Word of God Tower of Babel Newsletter Get the latest answers emailed to you. Thank You! Thank you for signing up to receive email newsletters from Answers in Genesis. You can also sign up for our free print newsletter (US only). Finish your subscription You're almost done! Please follow the instructions we emailed you in order to finish subscribing. You can also sign up for our free print newsletter (US only). Whoops! Your newsletter signup did not work out. Please refresh the page and try again. Support the creation/gospel message by donating or getting involved ! Answers in Genesis is an apologetics ministry , dedicated to helping Christians defend their faith and proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ . Learn more Customer Service 800.778.3390 Available Monday–Friday | 9 AM–5 PM ET © 2026 Answers in Genesis
